welcome back to movie recaps today i'm
going to explain thriller crime movie
called
girl in the basement the story starts
with our protagonist sarah and her
father
dawn rushing marie to the hospital
because she has trouble breathing
sarah starts panicking when marie stops
breathing she urges dawn to drive faster
when they reach the hospital don
specifically instructs sarah to stay
quiet
in the hospital the paramedics rush to
help marie they give her oxygen and try
to save her life
but all they get is a flat heart line on
the monitor the story goes back 20 years
earlier to a seemingly idyllic family
dinner scene
sarah and her sister amy are having
dinner with their parents don and irene
the mood on the table changes as sarah's
father shows his oppressive side not
allowing her to go to a party and
showing his reign over the family
that night sarah sneaks out with her
boyfriend chris her parents later
discover her room empty and her father
refers to her as a problem
at the party sarah has fun dancing with
chris who later sings her a song he
wrote especially for her
they express their love for each other
and kiss sarah comes home in the morning
don has been waiting for her all night
they fight and sarah says that the
moment she turns 18 she will leave the
family for good
sarah talks to her mother and sister
about her plans to travel all around the
country while working to support herself
her dad overhears the conversation and
goes to the basement where he reveals
the existence of a secret room behind a
bookshelf
three months later sarah graduates in a
conversation sarah has with her mom it
is revealed that her father has been
spending more time in the basement his
man cave
when irene leaves the house don tricks
sarah into the basement as she helps him
carry a box there
he takes her into the secret room
telling her it is a bomb shelter made by
the previous owner
he locks her in the room and she screams
in panic calling for help
unfortunately nobody can hear her as the
shelter is soundproof
her mother worried about her whereabouts
calls the police on the fourth day
her father visits her and coldly
explains the logistics of her captivity
from now on she will have to earn
everything she gets even the clean
ventilated air
before he leaves don is taking advantage
of sarah a cop visits the family saying
that she has likely left for her planned
long trip across the country
her mother does not believe that sarah
would ever leave home without saying
goodbye especially before her 18th
birthday
alone and afraid sarah reminisces about
her night spent with chris as the days
go by
chris comes to the house don lies to him
and tells him that after graduation
sarah ran away with her childhood
neighbor steve
on the 21st day of captivity in the
basement she celebrates her 18th
birthday and her dad brings her a cake
and a red nightgown as a gift
she asks for a clock and he tells her
that she has to do something for him so
that he does something for her
when she disobeys him he beats her
almost a year after her captivity she is
revealed to be pregnant and her water
breaks
all alone she gives birth to a girl
named marie four years later sarah is
pregnant again
don lives a secret double live one with
his wife irene and daughter amy
and another in the basement with sarah
and her daughter marie
still worried about the whereabouts of
sarah irene wants to hire a private
investigator but don firmly says no
as a gift for being good don brings a tv
in the basement for sarah and marie
later on sarah has a second baby a baby
boy michael
one night sarah makes her terrifying
life story into a bedtime story filled
with princesses and nights that she
tells to her kids
chris visits the house again asking
around for sarah
her sister amy tells him the truth
realizing that don lied to chris they
talk about how horrible he has always
been to sarah
amy is afraid that dawn might have
killed her citing his personality and
bad temper in the past
to make the time go by sarah creates
imaginary adventures for her children to
help them forget
the outside world in the meantime don is
confronted with his lies by amy and
irene
a horrible fight ensues furious irene
yells that she'll do everything in her
power to find her daughter
during their fight don drops his keys on
the armchair amy takes the keys and goes
around to the basement to look for clues
don finds her gets his keys back and
fights with amy
she is mad afraid and blames him for
causing sarah's disappearance
as time passes by sarah has another baby
boy who she names thomas
being nice and calm sarah convinces dawn
to take the third baby upstairs
she persuades him by explaining that
there is no room for another baby in the
basement and that she doesn't have the
time to take care of it
the baby is left on the house's porch to
be found by irene
in a heartfelt note in the baby basket
seemingly written by sarah
she writes that this is her baby and
that she wants it to be raised by irene
in the letter she explains that she and
her boyfriend don't have the means to
take care of the baby in the basket
there is also another note from sarah
pleading for help
unfortunately don is the one who
discovers it and assaults her again
the years go by in captivity the
children develop an extraordinary
imagination expanding their mom's
bedtime story
by now sarah has been in the basement
for 14 years
marie has grown into a beautiful young
girl that one night tries out makeup
when dawn shows interest in her beauty
sarah begs dawn to leave her daughter
alone
she does not want her to be assaulted in
return vaughn shuts down the power which
controls the clean air
while gasping for air marie expresses
her concerns about never meeting anyone
and having no friends
throughout the conversation we realize
that marie has no idea that don is both
her grandfather and father
now groan thomas finds his grandmother
crying in his mother's bedroom
irene misses her daughter and talks to
thomas about how magnificent sarah is
at the same time in the basement
raindrops start dropping from the
ceiling
sarah climbs up to discover a damp roof
using a spoon she digs her way to the
surface where she flashes a distressed
signal
a neighbor notices it and tells dawn
about it rather than checking it out
dawn beats sarah who is pregnant again
the beating causes her to lose her baby
as she sobs from the pain
sarah has a stillbirth and dawn buries
the baby in the yard
don goes to the basement and complains
he also praises thomas who is now a
strong athlete
when marie and michael ask when they are
going to be led into the outside world
don blames sarah in her bad behavior she
is the reason they are down there
trapped pressured by her children's
endless questions about their life
in a fit of rage sarah shouts and
demolishes all their furniture
exhausted she falls to the ground
remembering her happiest moments with
chris
her children put a blanket on her and
clean up their home
they apologize to her emotional sarah
tells them that they're old enough to
hear the true story behind their life in
captivity
so far they knew that dawn lives
upstairs with their aunt irene to help
take care of thomas sick of all the lies
she tells them everything
starting from the fact that her life is
the inspiration of their favorite
bedtime story
gently she explains that don is her dad
as well as their dad
the moment murray finds out the painful
truth she has a severe asthma attack
the children now feel that there is
something wrong with them sarah
reassures them
telling them that she loves them and
that dawn is the only one to be blamed
a year later another incident occurs
between dawn and michael after dawn
insults sarah and her appearance
the food for the basement is being
rationed as dawn is having trouble at
work
soon he loses his job facing a
foreclosure don tries to suffocate the
family in the basement
he connects the car exhaust fumes with
the air vent he gets interrupted
by thomas in the garage who unknowingly
saves their lives
while dawn and his family have a fun
barbecue in the yard
marie is sick struggling to breathe don
refuses to take marie to the hospital
sarah begs for his help she promises not
to say a word about anything
dun agrees michelle is left behind
20 years of captivity have passed and we
are now at the beginning of the film
when maurice is being rushed to the
hospital
sarah is extremely worried about marie's
life and feels truly relieved when the
doctors save her life
when the nurse asks for more medical
history she is told that marie is
homeschooled and has only been treated
with natural remedies
sarah slowly scans the hospital seeking
a way out but she looks tired and lost
in an attempt to escape sarah spills
water on the medical forms and separates
from don
seconds before dawn gets to her sarah
reaches the nurse confessing she needs
help
a police officer goes to talk to don the
police arrest him
sarah announces this to marie they are
safe and free
the house is filled with police who free
michael as well irene and thomas are
devastated when they see michael gasping
for air as they take him out of the
basement
don sees everything from the back of the
police vehicle later on during a
beautiful summer's day
marie thomas and michael play in the
countryside while sarah
irene and amy watch over them from the
house's porch
marie notices someone coming from the
driveway it's chris
he arrives on his motorcycle together
with sarah
they go for a walk he feels sorry for
not trying harder to find her
and for believing in her father's bs
story he gives her a gift
a pink motorcycle helmet he bought for
her at the age of 18 when they were
planning to embark on a journey
finally happy together they go on their
long-awaited motorcycle ride
make sure to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you can watch more
videos like this
thanks for watching